---
title: "Luck"
date: 2023-01-21T17:03:38Z
---

Activity seems to generate luck compared to inactivity. Even though inactivity can sometimes be attributed to luck, it's often past activity that had generated future luck, which inactivity had enabled its completion. Active states of mind, likely by one's choice to enter into, generate activity and therefore create luck.

This has wide implications, such as on the idea of "skill" and its effect on success. One may linearly view one person as being better than another at a specific activity, but the truth is is that the environment one is in could place such a loser over another, reliably, and with great difference in ability. This then runs contrary to the importance of measuring IQ or general factor in intelligence. Whatever potential someone has, even if measured in an abstract test, cannot be put to use in practical circumstances if there is a toxic work environment, unstable home and social life, unstable mental health, or deeply ingrained beliefs of being inadequate. Given the many confounds, one of the only conclusions I can come to is that the only thing worth worrying about when it comes to whether you will succeed or not is if you are doing something that you care about. If you care about it, and I suppose by extension you are feeling a reward from it, it's irrelevant whether you succeed or do not succeed, just that you persist and seek out constant changes in work and your environment which could help you do a little better, day by day. This bet against fate is surely a winning bet overtime due to the 1% rule, and the typical successful outcomes that occur when strategy is involved.