---
title: "What Being a Founder and Hustle Culture Really Mean"
date: 2023-02-04T13:41:40Z
draft: true
---

Screenshots are on my phone. Hustle culture is often represented by Elon Musk working 80 hour+ weeks, and many founders celebrating the fact that they do or did that. In reality, being a founder requires hard work. Like, exceptional work. However, someone in the comments of this particular LinkedIn post pointed out something really important. And it goes back to the classic idiom: you sharpen the axe before you cut down the tree.

Efficiency is the name of the game, especially in today's economy. Every member of senior management is looking at how do we get more work out of less people, even in the largest companies in the world, with 1,000s of layoffs. If there is any lesson to be had here, it's that efficiency is a lesson that pays off constantly, and is a lesson that is constant.

There are good founders, and bad founders. And I don't mean morally, I mean in terms of performance. Just like any other role. And the bad founders are the ones that work 80+ hour weeks, **who haven't analysed what's best for them**. For some founders, it will be working 80+ hour weeks. Perhaps the process of working calms them more than any other activity, which might sound crazy to you, but if you're the type of person who gets stressed when they're not doing something productive, or haven't done *enough* productive work in a day, then tackling your largest *stressor*, *that* stressor, will relieve the most stress for you. This is what I mean by finding what is right for you. Some people may see such an "ability" as a blessing, but there is always a dark side to imbalance and it's striking the balance for yourself that is important, not following others.

Because the only true constant in success is hard work. But hustle culture shows us that it means you cut out relationships with friends, you focus solely on yourself, or that you don't rely on other people. You don't game, you don't do any hobbies, you just sit down, do the work, get it done. There's a saying: a little knowledge is a dangerous thing.

You'll need to *get a feel* to figure out what works best for you, and if you try your hardest at that, what you find may surprise you. For instance, after I started measuring stress through my smartwatch (but there are ways you may do this without such a thing), I noticed the more stress I had, the greater my energy dipped in the evenings. And the lower my energy dipped, the more depressive I became, and less able to do the things I enjoy doing, less clearly I could think. It soon became a goal to maintain body battery as high as possible throughout a whole day, which means managing your stress in smart ways.

Something strange kept happening on intense work days however. Even though I was working as late as 9 or 10pm trying to get something done, my stress would hike up from my workout hours before, to 50 - 80s, but fall to a very low level, between 20 and 0, during the late evenings. I was thinking, was this the product of evenings in general? But during some bad, bad days, I've had high stress in the evenings, been depressive, and unproductive. The following days, I observed high stress in the mornings, sometimes the highest I'll have in a whole day. Meditation helped lowered it only a little bit, reducing high stress down to about medium. Something else was happening... this incredibly low stress... it was happening when I... worked?

But, I thought when my head was completely racked, I have a headache, I feel the need to stop, I would be highly stressed? No, turns out in those circumstances I have medium stress. However, if during those moments I leant back in my chair and took it easy, took a breather, then started rubberduckying the problem in my head talking and walking myself through it, it would completely remove any demotivation. It removed the mental obstacle at work, allowing me to work more. And, it massively reduced stress. Sometimes down to the levels of 5. In other words, the equivalent of a deep meditative state, or a flow state. My takeaway was that it seems work is the best calming strategy I have, and the burnout that I was experiencing was caused by putting too high expectations on myself.
